Polishing GH branch chapter (#241)
ProjectPythia/pythia-foundations: foundations/github/git-branches.md

## Prerequisites

| Concepts                                                   | Importance  | Notes                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| [What is GitHub?](what-is-github)                          | Necessary   | GitHub user account required |
| [GitHub Repositories](github-repos)                        | Necessary   |                              |
| [Issues and Discussions](github-issues)                    | Recommended |                              |
| [Cloning and Forking a Repository](github-cloning-forking) | Necessary   |                              |
| [Advanced GitHub Setup](github-setup-advanced)             | Recommended |                              |

> | [Basic Version Control with Git](basic-git)                | Recommended |                              |

Reviewer: To me it makes more sense to call this one "necessary" since it's the first introduction of command-line git
```suggestion
| [Basic Version Control with Git](basic-git)                | Necessary |                              |
```

Having forked (NOT just cloned) the [GitHub Sandbox Repository](https://github.com/ProjectPythia/github-sandbox) is essential for following the steps in this book chapter. See the chapter on [GitHub Cloning and Forking](github-cloning-forking.md).
```

![branching](../../images/branching.gif)

> The above flowchart demonstraties commit C3 and C4 added to the "branchA" of a clone of the forked repository. Different commits can be added to different branches in any order without depending on or knowing about each other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above flowchart demonstrates forking a remote repository, labeled "Upstream", creating a local copy, labeled "Clone", creating a new branch, "branchA", and adding two commits, C3 and C4, to "branchA" of the local clone of the forked repository. Different commits can be added to different branches in any order without depending on or knowing about each other.
```

![Git NewBranch](../../images/4-gitnewbranch.png)

> This will display the current and the new branch. You'll notice that we are still on branch `main` and will need to switch branches to work in our `branchA`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will display the current and the new branch. You'll notice that current or active branch, indicated by the "*" is still the `main` branch. Thus, any changes we make to the contents of our local repository will still be made on `main`.  We will need to switch branches to work in the new branch, `branchA`.
```

## Setting up a Remote Branch

While your clone lives locally on your laptop, a remote branch exists on your GitHub server. You have to tell GitHub about your local branch before these changes are reflected remotely in your upstream fork.

![pushing](../../images/pushing.gif)

> The above flowchart demonstrates adding commits locally (C3 and C4) before pushing them to the corresponding remote branch. Before the push, the changes from these commits exist ONLY locally and are not represented on your upstream GitHub repository. After the push, everything is up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above flowchart demonstrates pushing two new local commits (C3 and C4) to the corresponding remote branch. Before the push, the changes from these commits exist ONLY locally and are not represented on your upstream GitHub repository. After the push, everything is up-to-date.
```

## Merging Branches

Merging is how you bring your split branches of a repository back together again.

> If you want to merge 2 LOCAL branches together, the steps are as follows:

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, but when I first read "2 LOCAL" it sounded like either a bar or a hip-hop duo to me...
```suggestion
If you want to merge two _local_ branches together, the steps are as follows:
```

> Let's assume your 2 branches are named `branchA` and `branchB`. And you want your changes from `branchB` to now be reflected in `branchA`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume your two branches are named `branchA` and `branchB`, and you want your changes from `branchB` to now be reflected in `branchA`
```

1. First checkout the branch you want to merge INTO:

```
git checkout branchA
```

2. Then execute a `merge`:

```
git merge branchB
```

> A very common way of merging REMOTE branches is via a Pull Request.

Reviewer: This seems like an abrupt pivot from talking about a _local_ merge to talking about a PR.

Would it be possible to add a flowchart update that shows a local merge, consistent with the text example (merging `branchB` into `branchA`)?

Reviewer: And then follow up by saying that a Pull Request is basically a merge that happens on an upstream remote

## Merging Branches

Merging is how you bring your split branches of a repository back together again.

If you want to merge two _local_ branches together, the steps are as follows:

Let's assume your two branches are named `BranchA` and `BranchB`, and you want your changes from `branchB` to now be reflected in `branchA`

1. First checkout the branch you want to merge INTO:

```
git checkout BranchA
```

2. Then execute a `merge`:

```
git merge BranchB
```

![local merge](../../images/local merge.png)
The above diagram demonstrates merging `BranchB` into `BranchA`. After the merge `BranchB` is unchanged, but `BranchA` now represents all commits (C1/C2/C5 AND C3/C4).

If there were competing edits in the 2 branches that Git cannot automatically resolve, a **merge conflict** occurs. This typically happens if edits are to the same line in different commits. Conflicts can be [resolved in the command line](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line) or in your GUI of choice (such as Visual Studio Code).

> A **Pull Request** is essentially a merge that happens on an upstream remote. In a Pull Request, sometimes called a Merge Request, you are asking for the upsteam main repository to pull in, or merge, the changes from your feature branch.

Author: I still want to mention a PR though, as it ties into why you'd pull or delete a branch. I will leave it to 1 sentence though.

![PR](../../images/PR.png)
The above flowchart demonstrates a simple Pull Request (PR1), the upstream main repository has accepted the changes from the Feature 2 branch of your fork. The latest commit to the Upstream Main repository is now C4. Your Feature2 branch can now be safely deleted. This flowchart has simplified out the remote and local versions of the Feature2 branch.

![remotePR](../../images/remotePR.png)
The above flowchart demonstrates a Pull Request (PR1) without simplifying out the remote vs local versions of the Feature2branch. Typically multiple pushes are made from your local to remote branch before a pull request is drafted to take all of those commits (C3, C4, C6, and C7) into the Upstream Main branch.

We will continue this demonstration and cover the specifics of merging via a [Pull Request](github-pull-request) more thoroughly in the next section.

> ## Pulling

Reviewer 2: Rather than calling this section "Pulling", maybe a more meaningful title would be "Keeping your local branches up to date", and starting off with some text like:

_In the previous section we showed you how to merge local branches together, combining the changes from two different branches into one. In this example, all of the changes to the branches were local and made by a single person, you. In a collaborative environment, other contributors may be making changes to their own feature branches (or main branch), which will ultimately be pushed up to the remote repository. Thus your local copies of  branches may become stale and need to be refreshed. In the examples above, your local main branch may no longer be consistent with main on the remote repository. The more time that passes by, the more likely this is to happen, particularly for an active GitHub repository. Here we show you how to sync your branches with the upstream branches._ 

We should also consider adding something about merging main into your local feature branches (if they doen't exist on the remote) after doing a 'pull', and before pushing your feature branches up to the remote (or submitting a PR, discussed in the next chapter)
